how everyone.
So this is a practice lab station in which I'm going to show you how to create a simple
Saleh script.
So this is my article box and which I'm going to do a lot of testing.
So we'll start with a very basic Saleh scripting.
So locate a simple salad scream.
You have to use some editor text editor such as them via because,
you know,
shallow script is nothing.
It's a text file individually,
Harvin All Atlantic's Koeman's on some logic.
As for that equipment.
So once you have created the file save and close the file exit from the V I on,
then make that a script executable.
After that,
you have to do the testing with the script,
like the script is given.
The proper output are not as Fatah requirement on one.
Satisfied with the out port,
you can move that a script to your production environment,
where you have to run the script.
This is usually we do it in any environment.
Suppose I have a production environment on.
I want to do some task,
but I want to perform those tasks using some Saleh script.
So first of all,
we will vacating the Saleh script on the testing environment on one satisfied with output,
them will move those scripts to the production environment.
So let's stop.
So I'm in this location.
So this is a location where I'm going to keep on getting the skips for this entire course.
Morning.
So this is the first Alice kept.
So I'm going to use via and then you have to give the name off the Sallis care.
So I'm giving my first script.
Don't message.
It is not mandatory.
Toe.
Give this extension.
You can give any finally,
May as well.
So it is just for your,
you know,
reference only.
Like if you'll see that fine people come to know the boat dot Outside admits it's a script
.
That's why we usually prefer to,
you know,
put down a set.
Now I'm enter into the common mode.
All right,
so I have just opened a fine Andi,
just press enter.
The file has been opened now,
so this is a common what we can see that is Kim.
I know you can see that I'm an insert more No.
After,
you know,
put something in that like,
I need to put some commands or whatever the logic I want to put for this kid.
As for the requirement,
All right,
so,
first of all,
you know,
every script will always start with a she bang,
but I So it is like this one,
this hash exclamatory.
So this talent,
this index,
this one this hash exclamatory Syntex.
Basically,
it is used to indicate on interpretative for execution under line.
It's a UNIX operating system like you have created this a script.
But this is Kim is for which shell.
So here you can specify.
I want this for before bash.
I warned my skirt for pull.
Then you have to use pull.
Suppose I have created by Tony script and you have to tell at the beginning off the script
that this is my script which will be executed using bite on late support.
You know,
I have logged into the box and I have,
you know,
taking a shell that is C cell occasion.
And I have killed her descript.
So obviously,
if you're sitting on you know K shell on,
you have created a script on the starting.
You have no mention anything.
The 1st 90 i was started with the,
you know,
commands on you're going to execute the script.
So what will happen as you logged into the system and you have changed your shell from
bashed.
Okay,
so this group is going to run with the shell only,
But you are sitting on occasion on.
Do you have a specified This one?
This been dash.
So that is what will happen.
It doesn't matter on which sell yours currently.
You know,
sitting on using the script will be running with cash only.
So it is collar she banged or bang line as well.
So it is nothing,
but we can say the absolute part.
This is absolute part off the bash.
They Oh,
you can say that this ensures that the bash will be used to interpreted the script.
Okay,
Now come into the next line.
That is a comma echo.
I can give anything like welcome to online loving glasses.
Cool.
Hello to all my students.
I hope you are London.
Well,
from this course.
So you put you can put anything here today after,
you know,
creating this kid.
Whatever.
Okay.
Whatever you want,
you have better now.
Now you have to come out from this.
It means that you have toe save a filing.
Good.
So toe save a filing,
kid,
you have to first press escape on,
then type colon W Q.
Come on.
So my skipped has been created.
So let me kept this file.
So destroying these contents.
Now I'm going to execute this.
So to execute this escape,
you have to press dark less my script.
I'm getting an Eddo.
The other tells them the script doesn't have permission.
So let's see the permission off this fire.
So the permission off this file,
you can see for the route because I have Lord into the box as a route on drooled user has
skated this it's good.
So this route either is having only,
you know,
read and write access to this file.
It doesn't have the executable permissions.
So I'm going to use a common ch moon which will be used to 10.
The permission off any file or directory plus X is for,
you know,
executable permission on my script.
I am going to five this Alice.
I feel India.
You can see the permission has been stated.
It was this one.
Permission mark has been justice.
So It means that knowledge would use that is having the permission to execute this one.
I'm going to use this one.
I can see that I have got an output.
It means that my script has so this way.
You know,
you can clear the simplest grip,
right?
So you have to use V I editor to create the script on then save on,
then make it executable and execute on.
Always remember,
you have to start with a C bang.
That is the first line off any script Onda and See Bank is nothing this and shows that the
bash or pile up Eitan will be used to interpreted the script.
Okay,
so from there.
So for this lecture So we'll to in the next lecture about ticket